let's bring in villm Marx he's live for
us and occupied East Jerusalem so villm
firstly what more do we know about
hamas's latest
proposal well Elizabeth Reuters the news
agency has been reporting on a version
of the proposals that they say they've
seen and essentially it splits the offer
the requirements into two stages Hamas
saying that they would be willing to
release the women children elderly those
who are unwell from inside guard as well
as female Israeli soldiers that have
been held captive there for 5 months or
so now they've said the second stage
would involve discussions around a
deadline both for the withdrawal of
Israeli forces from Gaza as well as a
permanent ceasefire and they said at
that point all remaining detainees on
both sides would be released that first
stage where some of the captives inside
guards would be released in return for
700 to 1,000 Palestinian prisoners so
that's what Reuters have seen in
proposal I've reached out to half a
dozen officials from Hamas this morning
trying to get more details on top of
that I've not yet heard a response from
them the Israeli government the prime
minister's office released a statement
saying that quote uh this was Hamas
continuing to hold to unrealistic
demands but they did say that both the
war cabinet and the slightly larger
security cabinet would be meeting today
to discuss those proposals okay Wellman
as efforts continue to find a ceasefire
agreement so too do the killings of
Palestinians what is Israel saying about
the latest deaths of people waiting for
food at the Kuwait intersection in
Gaza so the Ministry of Health in Gaza
reported that 21 individuals have died
155 were injured during what they say
was Israeli military gunfire directed at
people waiting for Aid trucks at a
roundabout in Northern Gaza the Israeli
military this morning with a statement
to us saying that the reports that they
attack dozens of Garin at an a dist
distribution Point are false they said
they are assessing the incident quote
with the thoroughness that it
deserves okay and William you're near
one of the entrances to Islam's third
holiest site for the first Friday
prayers since the Muslim holy month of
Ramadan began what is the situation
there in terms of security and
[Music]
restrictions so right now it's as you
can probably hear around me relatively
calm it's several hours until the main
prayers will begin the Israeli
authorities say that there are 3,000
police officers available in The Old
City for days such as this we have seen
several checkpoints involving Israeli
police getting up to where we are here
there are no restrictions theoretically
on people from occupied East Jerusalem
or Palestinians inside Israel from
coming here to pray but there are age
restrictions on those traveling from the
occupied West Bank other than those age
restrictions they also have to apply in
advance for permit to come here they
have to travel through checkpoints after
4:00 a.m. this morning they have to be
back in the West Bank by 5:00 p.m. we've
been talking to people over the last
hour or so coming here successfully from
nablas from Bethlehem from Janine but
telling us just in the last few minutes
that there are many other people trying
to cross the checkpoints from the
occupied West Bank who are either being
delayed for long periods of time or
being turned away Willam thank you very
much for that for now that is Will marks
joining us live from occupied East
Jerusalem